Now, there is a saying that war can't kill love, but love can kill war, and Jehovah's Witnesses
truly exemplify that saying, all of man's horrible wars have not killed off the love of
Jehovah's people, in fact made it stronger, and yet their love has killed off war among
their ranks and even from within their hearts.
1 John 3, 10-12, in essence says, the children of God and the children of the devil are evident
by this fact.
The children of God love their brothers.
The children of the devil slaughter their brothers like Cain slaughtered his brother.
But you know, sometimes in the ministry and in other places, when we try to bring up our
stand regarding not participating in war, our Christian neutrality, people bring up the
objection about the Israelites.
They'll say, well, they were God's people, they fought war, so why can't Christians fight
in wars?
How do you deal with that argument?
Well, if you're going to overcome that, you obviously have to show them there's a vast
difference between the Israelites and Bible times and true Christians today.
In fact, let's briefly discuss five differences.
1. In the days of the Israelites, God's people were gathered into one nation.
So when they went into battle against the pagan nations, they weren't killing fellow
believers.
They weren't killing their brothers.
But today, Revelation 7.9 says that the great crowd of true Christians is scattered in
all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues.
So if Christians participated in war today, what would happen?
We would end up killing fellow believers, our brothers.
And of course, we know that it's happening among ones who claim to be God's people who
take up the sword.
We find Catholic killing their fellow Catholics.
We find the same thing among the Methodists, the Baptist, Muslims, slaughtering members
of their own religion.
Makes me think of a conversation I had many years ago with a high-ranking Mormon elder.
And I ask him, I said, well, what is your position on war?
We don't like war.
I said, what do you do, though?
If you're living in a country at a time, there's a draft, you're drafted into the military.
He said, well, if the government makes this do it, it's their responsibility.
We go ahead and fight.
I said, do you then kill another Mormon on the battlefield?
Because I know you have Mormons in many different countries.
He said, well, if I knew he was a Mormon, I'd let him go.
I said, but normally, it's not possible to check with each person before you shoot
it.
Well, he didn't admit it, but obviously he got the point that was made there.
But now, let's go to our second difference, Jehovah God, who can read hearts, personally
judged as worthy of execution the people the Israelites went up against.
He directly told them to execute his judgment on these demon worshipping people whose worship
included gross sexual immorality, even child sacrifice.
Open up to Leviticus chapter 18, please.
And notice an example of Jehovah telling the Israelites concerning the Canaanites.
Now, here's what he said.
Because 18 verse 24, Jehovah says, do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things,
for it is by all these things that the nations that I am driving out from before you have
made themselves unclean.
Therefore the land is unclean, and I will bring punishment on it for its error.
And the land will vomit its inhabitants out.
So Jehovah told them to execute his judgment on these people.
Now here's our third difference.
The Israelites were killed selectively, and we have just two examples of many that could
be related.
A Joshua chapter 6 shows that Rahab and her entire household were miraculously spared.
Why?
Because Rahab exercised faith in Jehovah.
Or what about Joshua chapter 9 and 10?
Talks about how Jehovah spared the Canaan or the Ghibbianites who were actually in line
for destruction because they exercised faith in Jehovah.
Now it's just a couple of examples.
But in today's wars are people spared because of their obedience and faith?
No.
Often the civilian casualties are greater than the soldier casualties when they drop their
bombs.
The collateral damage, as they call it, often results in substantial death of innocent people.
Let's get our fourth difference now.
The Israelites' soldiers were required to conduct their warfare according to Jehovah's
guidelines.
Now here are just a few examples of Jehovah's guidelines of many that could be related.
Open up to Deuteronomy chapter 23, please.
Deuteronomy 23, and notice what Jehovah told the Israelites, army, the soldiers.
Deuteronomy 23, beginning of verse 9, when you are entamped against your enemies, you should
avoid anything bad.
Look at verse 12.
A private place should be designated for use outside the camp.
They would go out there and relieve themselves.
See, why?
Look at verse 14.
For Jehovah your God is walking about within your camp to deliver you and to hand over
your enemies to you and your camp must be holy so that he does not see anything indecent
in you and turn away from accompanying you.
Yes, Jehovah required cleanliness among these Israelites' soldiers because actually they
were sanctified for warfare.
But now, what about soldiers today?
Obviously, very different.
In fact, the Insight book talks about how they were certainly not allowed to rape any of
the conquered city's women.
In fact, they couldn't even marry such a woman for one month.
Page 173 of the Insight book, you can get a lot of Jehovah's guidelines that he gave
to the Israelites' soldiers.
But now, one more difference, Jehovah thought with the Israelites giving them miraculous
victories.
And again, we'll just give two examples of many that could be related.
How is the Battle of Jericho?
What?
Who are the priests?
Blue horns.
The military force marched.
The army shouted and the walls fell flat.
Jehovah gave them that victory.
Or what about the victory of the Gibbianites, the victory over the kings that attacked them?
Joshua 1011 says, Jehovah hurled great hailstones from the sky so that more died from the
hill than from the sword of the Israelites.
Well, unlike today, Jehovah fought with the Israelites.
So there we have five differences.
In the days of the Israelites, see, unlike today, God's people were gathered in one nation.
So they didn't go up against their brothers when they went into war.
And secondly, Jehovah personally judged those executed as worthy of such.
A third, the Israelites' wars were killing only selectively.
And four, the Israelites' soldiers were required to conduct their warfare according to Jehovah's
strict guidelines.
And number five, Jehovah fought with the Israelites, giving them miraculous victories.
So you could truly say that the Israelites' wars were holy wars.
But the wars of today's wicked world are anything but holy.
No wonder Jesus said that theocratic warfare would no longer include the use of physical
weapons.
Remember what he said in Matthew 26, 52?
He said, those that take up the sword will die perished by the sword.
And he taught his followers not to harm their enemies, in fact to even pray for them.
And his position, of course, is in harmony with Jehovah's prophecy at Isaiah 2, 2-4, that
in the final part of the days, God's people would beat their swords into plowshares, and
they would not even learn war anymore, much less participate in it.